# Food-Inspections-in-the-City-of-Chicago-Data-Analysis-using-IBM-Watson-Analytics
The dataset contains information for the restaurants and other food establishments in Chicago. There are around 400 different types of facilities in the city. (Chicago, 2017) Every facility is categorized by its risk of affecting the public’s health. High risk is showed by 1, medium risk is showed by 2 and low risk has been showed by 3. The number of inspection in each area or facility are dependent on the risk. If the area is under high risk then frequent food inspections happen in that area. (Health, 2010) Violation type is mentioned for all the inspections which are failed. A facility can receive up to 45 distinct violations. Street address, city, state and zip code of each facility will help to display analyzed data on the geo map.  Along with this information Inspection Type, Inspection date and results of the inspection are also provided in the dataset. Every inspection receives result after inspection is done. The result can be fail, no entry, not ready, out of business, pass or pass with conditions. Facilities getting a ‘pass’ did not have critical violations. Businesses receiving a ‘pass with conditions’ were found to have critical or serious violations, but these violations got corrected during inspection. If facility receives a ‘fail’ means there were critical violations which could not be corrected during inspection. ‘Doing business as’ and ‘Also know as’ are the two fields which provide legal names of the facilities. (Health, 2010) License number mentioned in the dataset is assigned by the department of Business Affairs and Consumer Protection.  For each entry in the dataset facility type given which provides more information about the establishment description. There are different types of inspections performed based on the facility type. ‘Canvass’ is the most common type of inspection performed based on the risk of the facility. If the inspection is performed on the request of owner before opening the establishment then it is called consultation. The dataset provides all this necessary information from year 2010 to 2017 which can be used to find different trends from this data.
